---
title: Papersy: Start taking shape
publishedAt: 2026-04-05
order: 1
hidden: false
---
These past few days, Papersy was starting to take shape. I created its frontend and started implementing backend logics to the frontend. I've been using Claude to support these tasks. But I also monitored it very closely, reviewing every line of code. Which kind of explained why it was taking almost a week for 8 commits to be certified Okay.

Even so, I found a few missing pieces here and there that, if I didn't look closely, I might skip it. One of them was a N+1 query bug. So Claude, while helping speed up development process, still needs a keen eye to watch its back. It's annoying and also good for me, because I'm learning the in-and-out of my own programming as well as SvelteKit at the same time. I was right to pick Svelte because it is like Vue, the syntax and code presentation are so easy on the eyes, unlike React.

I'm also trying out a new method where I let Claude run wild inside a Docker container, bypass-permissions on. That way, it can't just rm -rf / by entire system. I'm also trying out using Haiku for actual coding, Sonnet for planning. I very rarely feel like Opus is necessary, since even Sonnet does a good enough job of planning for me. And also, Opus burns tokens so much faster than Sonnet. Even Sonnet, when using it to build my frontend, burned 90% within one session, which led to the decision of Sonnet + Haiku combo. I'll be sure to review the code when I can. But it's tough balancing between my job, my school and this new endeavour. But it was thrilling, and I learned much faster on the job than in a book.

In the meanwhile, here is a sneak peek of the UI. I might need a UI/UX designer one day, if this blows up.

<Gallery folder='blog/Tech/26/260405' imgs={['1775454678631.jpeg', '1775454678664.jpeg', '1775454678699.jpeg']}/>