---
title: Papersy: So close yet so far away
publishedAt: 2026-04-13
order: 1
hidden: false
---
After a whole week of bugfixing, Papersy is close to what I envision it to be. The UI is basically completed, only the logic and backend still need lots of work.

This whole week was special, because this was my first run of the coding multi agent from Claude Code. I started small, a manager in Sonnet, a coder and a validator in Haiku. So far it's working great. Burns a bit more token, though. There were bugs around, but less than when I started from scratch. I guess once the foundation is set, it gets easier.

Two problems I'm trying to solve:
- While the summarizer works to my standard, the chat box is dumb as a rock. It basically only gets data from the vector database. They have no creativity in their answer, always "I don't know". I started to understand why hallucination is a hard problem to combat. There must be something wrong in the system prompt or the temperature of the chat box.
- It's a pain trying to get better-auth library to agree with you. It keeps arguing about ORIGIN url. It's a pain pushing environment variable to production run. Thankfully node --env-file takes more of the problem.
- Remember to add a way to kill the drizzle client gracefully. Otherwise, good luck trying to shutdown the app with ctrl-c.
- I don't know how the vibe-coder and everyone ships so fast. The more I fix, the more bugs pop up. And also, the more improvements I want to do. So the job list keeps getting longer.
But the MVP release is near, no worries.

<Gallery folder='blog/Tech/26/260413' imgs={['1776093811198.jpeg', '1776093811278.jpeg', '1776093811397.jpeg', 's-1776093811373.jpeg', 's-1776093811413.jpeg']} gridColumns={3}/>