---
title: JobbedIn won at AI For Good Hackathon
publishedAt: 2026-05-25
order: 1
hidden: false
---
Last week, we finished the AI For Good hackathon and won first place, hooray! Our product, JobbedIn was completed within a nick of time. I even stayed up all night last Friday, wrestling with Vercel because they decided at that time was the perfect time to "swallow" the environment variables, making the app unstable.

Through this event, I learned a lot. It was a lot of leadership and management lessons. While my team did most of the world, I was the one steering the ship as the project manager. I decided how a feature should be implemented, which one to prioritize in a small timeframe. I even got to experience the "2am error" that the pro devs keep talking about. During all this, I had multiple interviews, a lot of which I demonstrated this product with the build that the hackathon judges saw. The interviewers were all impressed, which was the highest compliments I have got in my career so far. I got more experience from "sell me this pen", if you understand the reference.

You can visit [my company page](https://lesteuai.com/) to check it out for yourself. The source code is in the website. I wanted to also open source [cover-letter-generator](https://github.com/bachsofttrick/cover-letter-generator). This is where I got the inspiration for JobbedIn. From this simple generator, using ChatGPT with modifying prompts, to JobbedIn. It's quite a journey.

I want to thank my friend, Huu Phat Loc Nguyen, for helping me make this possible. A hardworking, adaptable developer. We could use more developers like him. I like to thank Mack Lieu, Daniel Martin and everyone at AI Club for making it possible.
