---
title: 'Auto build driver when updating Linux kernel with dkms'
publishedAt: '2023-05-04'
---
I am a media consumption enthusiast. Let's just say I watch movies a
lot. Usually, people like me will have a big home theater setup with a
large TV, a large speaker set, a media player with huge HDD storage. But
that sounds like too much work, since you have to update the hard drive
constantly with new catalogues. So I built my server out of an old i3
laptop, a SSD, 2 HDD lying around with a dock and an Ethernet USB
dongle. I chose 2.5 Gbps dongle version because I wanted to future-proof
my server. But that proved to be my undoing, because the OS I chose for
my server, Debian, had an older version of the driver that didn't
support the RTL8156 chipset. It might support an older one, the RTL8153,
which is the 1 Gbps variant. So I searched for its driver. It's quite a
little adventure.

![](/images/blog/230504/DKMS_flow.webp)

#### First time compiling from source

A Google search for RTL8156 driver for linux led me to the
manufacturer's driver page to download the driver. However, the
compressed file I downloaded (in this instance .tar.bz2) didn't have any
.deb file to install. Instead I was left with a bunch of .h, .c files
with a Makefile. I thought: "Wait. This is a source code!".

So far, I have mostly installed apps and drivers through apt so this was
a new territory. I did some researches and tried compiling the driver.
In the source code folder, I typed:

*make -j4*

With -j4 being number of jobs to run simultaneously, 4 is the number of
threads of my CPU. After it finished, the result was r8152.ko file, a
kernel module. I plugged in the Ethernet USB. It didn't work. Then I
tried loading the module into the kernel like [this
article](https://www.tecmint.com/load-and-unload-kernel-modules-in-linux/)
suggested:

*insmod r8152.ko*

Then it worked. My server recognized it.

*ip a*

*3: enx00e04e3b0ac0: \<BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER\_UP\> mtu 1500 qdisc
pfifo\_fast state UP mode DEFAULT group default qlen 1000*

I edited the *interface*s file in */etc/network* to assign it a static
address by adding:

*allow-hotplug enx00e04e3b0ac0*

*iface enx00e04e3b0ac0 inet static*

*address 192.168.4.3/24*

*gateway 192.168.4.1*

For then on, I could access my server in my house through that IP,
*192.168.4.3.*

But I discovered that:

\- At start-up, I have to *insmod* like that to load the module. This
was solved by simply copying that module to /lib/modules/\$(uname
-r)/kernel/drivers/net/usb. Didn't have to *insmod* anymore. But that
wasn't all.

\- Every time I update the server with apt update, apt upgrade, and
there is a kernel update, I have to compile module from source, copy it
over again or else I lose the driver. So I often delay updating my
server, which is bad because you want to keep your kernel up-to-date on
bugfix, vulnerabilities.

I needed a way to make it compile every time there is a kernel update.
So is there a way?

#### dkms - Dynamic Kernel Module Support

Nowadays, I use an Ubuntu desktop as my main driver. I often see
something along the line of dkms for my Nvidia card anytime there is a
kernel update. After rebooting, the video card still works with the new
kernel. Naturally, I started looking into this "dkms".

According to this [article](https://linuxhint.com/dkms-linux/), dkms
*"is a framework where device driver source can reside outside the
kernel source tree so that it is very easy to rebuild modules as you
upgrade kernels"*. So this is the stuff I was looking for. The author
also encountered dkms similarly to me, but by following guides to
install his Wifi driver.

So with the source code of my Ethernet USB, I copied it to */usr/src*. I
also created a file inside the source code's folder, *dkms.conf* with
the following content:

*PACKAGE\_NAME=\"r8152\"*

*PACKAGE\_VERSION=\"2.15.0\"*

*BUILT\_MODULE\_NAME\[0\]=\"r8152\"*

*MAKE=\"\'make\' -j\$(nproc) KVER=\$\{kernelver\}\"*

*CLEAN=\"\'make\' clean\"*

*DEST\_MODULE\_LOCATION\[0\]=\"/kernel/drivers/net/usb/\"*

*AUTOINSTALL=\"YES\"*

PACKAGE\_NAME gives the name to the entire package of modules.

PACKAGE\_VERSION give the version of the entire package of modules being
installed with dkms. These two form the name of the folder that contains
the source code, *r8152-2.15.0.

BUILT\_MODULE\_NAME gives the name of the module just after it is built.

DEST\_MODULE\_LOCATION specifies the destination where a module should
be installed to, once compiled. From the example: /lib/modules/\$(uname
-r)*/kernel/drivers/net/usb*.

Note that for each module within a dkms package, the numeric value of \#
must be the same for each of BUILT\_MODULE\_NAME and
DEST\_MODULE\_LOCATION and that the numbering should start at 0. So each
module goes with its own destination

MAKE and CLEAN correspond to commands used to run when dkms builds
(make) the module and cleans up after.

AUTOINSTALL is set to yes so that the service
/etc/rc.d/init.d/dkms\_autoinstaller will automatically try to install
this module when upgrading kernel.

After that, I ran three commands:

\- *sudo dkms add r8152/2.15.0*

\- *sudo dkms build r8152/2.15.0*

\- *sudo dkms install r8152/2.15.0*

And it installed the driver to the kernel. From then on, it will build
and reinstall anytime I upgrade the kernel.

Result:

*sudo dkms add r8152/2.15.0*

*Creating symlink /var/lib/dkms/r8152/2.15.0/source -\>*

*/usr/src/r8152-2.15.0*

*DKMS: add completed.*

*sudo dkms build r8152/2.15.0*

*Kernel preparation unnecessary for this kernel. Skipping\...*

*Building module:*

*cleaning build area\...*

*\'make\' -j4 KVER=5.10.0-22-amd64\...\...*

*cleaning build area\...*

*DKMS: build completed.*

*sudo dkms install r8152/2.15.0*

*r8152.ko:*

*Running module version sanity check.*

*Good news! Module version v2.15.0 for r8152.ko*

*exactly matches what is already found in kernel 5.10.0-22-amd64.*

*DKMS will not replace this module.*

*You may override by specifying \--force.*

*depmod\....*

*DKMS: install completed.*

*dkms status*

*broadcom-sta, 6.30.223.271, 5.10.0-20-amd64, x86\_64: installed*

*broadcom-sta, 6.30.223.271, 5.10.0-22-amd64, x86\_64: installed*

*[r8152, 2.15.0, 5.10.0-22-amd64, x86\_64: installed]*

If you wish to remove the driver, type in *"dkms remove r8152/2.15.0
\--all"*.

References:

\- [man dkms](https://linux.die.net/man/8/dkms)

\- [Realtek USB FE / GBE / 2.5G / Gaming Ethernet Family Controller
Software](https://www.realtek.com/en/component/zoo/category/network-interface-controllers-10-100-1000m-gigabit-ethernet-usb-3-0-software)

\-
[rtl8821CU](https://github.com/brektrou/rtl8821CU/blob/master/dkms-install.sh)
