---
title: 'Trying a new kernel and compiling network driver from it'
publishedAt: '2023-06-14'
---
In celebration of the release of [Debian
12](https://www.debian.org/News/2023/20230610), I downloaded and tried
it out on a VM (virtual machine). Unfortunately, my [network
driver](https://www.realtek.com/en/component/zoo/category/network-interface-controllers-10-100-1000m-gigabit-ethernet-usb-3-0-software)
won't compile under Linux kernel version 6.1. I thought they were just
kidding when they said kernel version \<= 5.17. So I held off upgrading
my server to Debian 12. A short while back, I read this
[post](https://jamesachambers.com/orange-pi-i96-getting-started-guide/)
about getting i96 board from Orange Pi to work. That got me thinking.
[Are kernel and OS
separated?](https://askubuntu.com/questions/913351/why-are-the-operating-system-and-kernel-treated-separately-in-linux)
The board in question could run Debian 11 Bullseye on kernel 3.10, which
was very old.

#### Debian 10

Because I couldn't find the ISO for Debian 11 that is currently on my
server to replicate the server environment on a VM, I used Debian 10
ISO. Lucky enough! It came with kernel 4.19. While installing, I tried
using a mirror server from Vietnam to speed up downloading packages. It
worked! So good that I changed mirrors on my server, my laptop OS to
Vietnam to. As previously, I downloaded packages from the sources, which
are from the US so they were slow.

I upgraded [Debian 10 to
11](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/update-upgrade-debian-10-to-debian-11-bullseye/)
by changing all instances of *buster* in */etc/apt/source.list* to
*bullseye* and use *apt full-upgrade*. Debian 11 gave me kernel 5.10,
same as my server. I added the
[*backport*](https://wiki.debian.org/Backports) repository to the apt
source list, because they have new softwares and kernels there:

*deb http://debian.xtdv.net/debian/ bullseye-backports main*

Next, I searched for a new kernel by filtering apt list:

*apt list linux-image\* \| less*

It came up with tons of results so it could get confusing. Fortunately,
the kernel the OS used probably looks like *linux-image-5.10.0-23-amd64*
so using this, I could track down the kernel I need, like
*linux-image-6.1.0-0.deb11.7-amd64*. I did try one with *cloud* in it,
and it shrunk the font on screen. After installing, it would generate a
new config file for the boot loader, GRUB. The next restart, it will
*reboot to the new kernel*. And it did. Here was the result
of *uname -a*:

*Linux debian 6.1.0-0.deb11.7-amd64 \#1 SMP PREEMPT\_DYNAMIC Debian
6.1.20-2\~bpo11+1 (2023-04-23) x86\_64 GNU/Linux*

* *

I also tried upgrading to Debian 12 while *holding* the
*linux-image-amd64* from upgrading, to see if it was possible to get to
Debian 12 without using kernel 6.1. It also worked.

#### Lubuntu 22.04

I replicated the experiment on a fresh Lubuntu 22.04.2 VM. It was a bit
different. The package I was looking for was
*linux-image-5.15.0-73-generic*. The newest kernel they got was
*linux-image-5.19.0-43-generic* so I tried *linux-image-6.1.0-1013-oem*.
It booted back in after installing and restarting the VM.

#### Compiling driver

Back to Debian 11 with kernel 6.1, I tried compiling driver again after
installing *linux-headers-6.1.0-0.deb11.7-amd64*. It didn't work and it
gave errors:

*/home/bach/r8152-2.16.3/r8152.c: In function 'sg\_en\_store':*

*/home/bach/r8152-2.16.3/r8152.c:20462:2: error: implicit declaration of
function 'netif\_set\_gso\_max\_size'; did you mean
'netif\_set\_tso\_max\_size'? \[-Werror=implicit-function-declaration\]*

*20462 \| netif\_set\_gso\_max\_size(netdev, tso\_size);*

*\| \^\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~*

*\| netif\_set\_tso\_max\_size*

*/home/bach/r8152-2.16.3/r8152.c: In function 'rtl8152\_probe':*

*/home/bach/r8152-2.16.3/r8152.c:20704:3: error: too many arguments to
function 'netif\_napi\_add'*

*20704 \| netif\_napi\_add(netdev, &tp-\>napi, r8152\_poll, 256);*

*\| \^\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~*

*In file included from /home/bach/r8152-2.16.3/r8152.c:16:*

*/usr/src/linux-headers-6.1.0-0.deb11.7-common/include/linux/netdevice.h:2569:1:
note: declared here*

*2569 \| netif\_napi\_add(struct net\_device \*dev, struct napi\_struct
\*napi,*

*\| \^\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~*

*/home/bach/r8152-2.16.3/r8152.c:20706:3: error: too many arguments to
function 'netif\_napi\_add'*

*20706 \| netif\_napi\_add(netdev, &tp-\>napi, r8152\_poll, 64);*

*\| \^\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~*

*In file included from /home/bach/r8152-2.16.3/r8152.c:16:*

*/usr/src/linux-headers-6.1.0-0.deb11.7-common/include/linux/netdevice.h:2569:1:
note: declared here*

*2569 \| netif\_napi\_add(struct net\_device \*dev, struct napi\_struct
\*napi,*

*\| \^\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~*

*cc1: some warnings being treated as errors*

For the first error, I changed the function according to the tip. For
the following errors, I consulted the wisdom of the Internet and found
this
[patch](https://lore.kernel.org/netdev/20221002175650.1491124-1-kuba@kernel.org/t/),
so I changed the function again. I recompiled again and it got through.
Using *modinfo r8152.ko* yielded result that it was compiled using
kernel 6.1:

*vermagic: 6.1.0-0.deb11.7-amd64 SMP preempt mod\_unload modversions*

#### Compiling driver (new version 2.17.1)

After the release of Debian 12, Realtek issued an update on their
RTL8156 source driver. I downloaded it and compiled against kernel
version 6.1 and installed it. It worked, without any errors from the old
version. There was also a driver already in the kernel so I tested both
drivers. The in-tree kernel module required firmwares to be installed,
you can find it in *firmware-realtek* package in *bullseye-backports*
repository. However, Debian didn\'t recognize the network USB, so I have
to force driver by hand using this command as root (not sudo, it didn\'t
work):

*echo 0bda 8156 \> /sys/bus/usb/drivers/r8152/new\_id*

Then it recognized the USB. By using **iperf3**, I measured performance
between 2 drivers. While they were able to saturate the 1Gbps bandwidth,
the in-tree module took 10% more CPU usage compared to the Realtek
driver. The in-tree module also required a hacky workaround for the
server to recognize, so I opted for the Realtek one.
