---
title: 'Convert BIOS to UEFI for Linux (or how to recover GRUB)'
publishedAt: '2023-08-23'
---
For the longest time, I was scared of using UEFI on my PC. With the
exception of my laptops, which force me to use UEFI though I disabled
Secure Boot because it's a pain to deal with, I have been using CSM mode
(compatibility mode) that simulates BIOS. Lately with a new hard drive
to test various Linux OSes on, I've decided to reinstall Windows 10
inside the PC on UEFI mode, so on the new Linux hard drive I can install
multiple OSes without having their bootloaders stepping on each other
like in the BIOS age.

#### Howto

I learned this from [this
article](https://askubuntu.com/questions/509423/which-commands-to-convert-a-ubuntu-bios-install-to-efi-uefi-without-boot-repair)
in StackExchange. These steps apply too, I guess, Ubuntu, Fedora, Arch,
or anything using GRUB as bootloader. Tldr, we *chroot* into the root
directory *of the OS you want to convert*, run some commands and GRUB is
restored.

First, I checked to see whether the machine is on UEFI mode using this
command:

*\[ -d /sys/firmware/efi \] && echo UEFI \|\| echo BIOS*

Proceed if it says UEFI, otherwise go into the BIOS menu and change it.

Afterward, I mapped some partitions into the root directory of the OS
that is on the way to be converted (supposed that *sda1* is the OS
partition, *sda2* is the EFI system partition, */mnt* is where you want
to chroot to, could be anywhere else):

*sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt*

*sudo mount /dev/sda2 /mnt/boot/efi*

*sudo mount \--bind /dev /mnt/dev*

*sudo mount \--bind /proc /mnt/proc*

*sudo mount \--bind /sys /mnt/sys*

*sudo* mount *\--bind /run /mnt/run*

Later on, I loaded a module called *efivarfs* (UEFI Runtime Variables
Support) using *sudo modprobe efivarfs*. Then I went in using *sudo
chroot /mnt*.

Now, depend on the OS, say Ubuntu or Fedora, you use their respective
package manager. For my case, that was apt. So:

*apt update && apt list grub\**

Check for package *grub-efi* and *grub-efi-amd64*
(*grub-efi-amd64-signed* if Secure Boot was enabled, I didn't try it).
And then I went:

*grub-install \--target=x86\_64-efi \--efi-directory=/boot/efi
\--bootloader-id=ubuntu \--recheck \--no-floppy \--debug*

Alternatively, [this
article](https://superuser.com/questions/376470/how-to-reinstall-grub2-efi)
suggests reinstalling *grub-efi*. This is how I recover GRUB on Fedora,
since *grub-install* didn't work.

References:

\- [What exactly is the problem with
UEFI](https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxquestions/comments/63azo4/eli5_what_exactly_is_the_problem_with_uefi_and/)
