---
title: 'My thought on Chromebook'
publishedAt: '2023-10-11'
---
It's very nice to have something powerful in a compact form, like a
gaming laptop, when your job requires a heavy workload. But when your
job requires you constantly in a meeting, only doing spreadsheets on a
day-to-day basis, or if you are a student, sitting at lectures on end,
then a gaming laptop may not be for you because its battery life is
horrible. I mean, 3-4 hours is nice, only if you do not run any heavy
workload, or else it will drop to 1-1.5 hours. That's why I'm searching
for this *elusive* 8-hour battery laptop. I asked about it in a local
electronic retail store. They said it doesn't exist, only about 6 hours
or so. Not planning to give up, I scoured the Internet to find something
like that.

#### Low-powered solutions

I came up with some solutions:

\- A laptop with a low-powered x86 CPU: like Atom (N3350, N4000, N5000,
N4020, N5100, N6000), or m-series (m3)

\- A laptop with an ARM CPU: from MediaTek (MT8183, ...) or Qualcomm
(7c, 7c gen 2, SQx family)

Another consideration is the operating system (OS) running on the
laptop. It's more important on ARM laptops because MediaTek CPUs are
only on ChromeOS, while Qualcomm ones are available on either ChromeOS
or Windows. But using an ARM laptop is quite limited, especially on
Windows, as you are constricted by the number of applications written
for the architecture. It's quite small. While battery life on ARM
laptops is vastly superior to that of x86 laptops, it doesn't matter if
there isn't any app for them. So, I leaned towards x86 ones. And today,
I got a chance to try out a Chromebook.

This article is written using that same Chromebook, on Microsoft 365,
because I'm more used to Office than Google Docs.

#### What is Chromebook?

Chromebook, simply put, is a laptop with ChromeOS as the default OS.
Unlike most OSes, it only works when connected to the Internet, even
though Google is trying to rectify that by allowing Android apps and
Linux apps to be installed. The focus of the entire OS is the web
browser, Chrome, which powers the OS as well. With the web browser, you
can, of course, browse the web. You can also install and run web apps. A
Chromebook utilizes its own cloud solution for most tasks, like office
with Google Docs, file storage with Google Drive (there is an internal
storage with a file manager). ChromeOS was built loosely on Gentoo
Linux. I said *loosely*, because there isn't much Linux inside ChromeOS.
Most commands are removed by Google. As the purpose of this OS is for
web browsing only, it's very light, and can run on some of the weakest
hardware, say Celeron or Pentium, or cheap ARM cores. Although compared
to Linux, not lighter by much. But much lighter than Windows by 3 GB of
RAM.

![](/images/231011/top.png)

![](/images/231011/System_rest.png)

#### My thought on Chromebook

The one I borrowed was a [HP
Chromebook](https://www.notebookcheck.net/HP-Chromebook-13-G1-Core-m3.215846.0.html)
running [Intel Core
m3-6y30](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/88198/intel-core-m36y30-processor-4m-cache-up-to-2-20-ghz.html)
and 4 GB of RAM. It came out in 2016-2017 so it is quite old already. So
my experience will revolve around this one.

\- Keyboard lacking some keys for text editing: Home, End, Page Up /
Down, no Function keys. Start (Super on Linux) key is gone, replaced
with Search key which replaces the Caps Lock for no reason. Why not just
replace the Start key and leave the Caps Lock alone? Those missing keys
have been replaced by shortcuts found by pressing **Ctrl+Alt+/** on the
keyboard to show off the shortcut list

\- Ran surprisingly fast on only 4GB of RAM. Could be because this
machine has the Android portion disabled by the organization I borrowed
from

\- It's quite warm on the underside when working hard because there's no
cooling fan (these low-powered chips don't usually have fans), but most
of the time it's cool

\- Battery lasted about 6-7 hours, much longer than my gaming laptop. If
running a heavy webpage, I think it could run for 2-3 hours

\- Lightweight. You can carry it with you like a tablet. But the same
can be said for Windows laptops of the same specs. But they probably run
much hotter due to being a heavier OS *compared to ChromeOS*

![](/images/231011//IMG_20230922_115538_030.jpg)

![](/images/231011/IMG_20230922_115555_363.jpg)

\- File manager is very basic. It's like they took the codebase of
Google Drive and used it as basis for the file manager

![](/images/231011/filemanager.png)

\- There's a terminal but it's hidden. You can access it using
**Ctrl+Alt+T**, just like in Linux (which is funny, ChromeOS is loosely
based on Gentoo Linux). But it's quite limited in command. Type
**help\_advanced** to show off all commands available on ChromeOS

**-** Settings: When you pull the scrollbar, the menu heading doesn't
follow you, which is quite useless as the function of a heading should
be. To be fair, Windows's Settings flaw is when you return to the
previous page, it doesn't *automatically scroll you to the previous
checkpoint*. **WHY IS IT so hard for them to design a decent Settings
app??? They made it work ON ANDROID**

**-** My Chromebook is old, so its GPU doesn't support the newest
codecs. Playing Youtube videos, if I leave it to run as is, the browser
defaults to VP9 and eats up 45% CPU. So I installed h264ify to switch
codec to H264 and pull the CPU usage down.

![](/images/231011/system_h264.png)

\- AUE: This is the biggest downside of using ChomeOS. There is an
expiry date, just like MacOS. When it hits the date, it won't receive
any more updates from Google, even the browser, as the browser is
**coupled with the OS. Yes, very WISE DECISION.** May have been
deliberate for planned obsolescence. There was news regarding
[separating the two
apart](https://chromeunboxed.com/chromeos-116-transition-lacros-chrome-browser-seamless/),
but it remains to be seen what Google is planning. Does it allow to
update the browser indefinitely, or just a few versions apart from the
OS? As for my Chromebook, the update is no more, as it is expired. Still
usable, if you don't have any concern regarding security

I will be on the lookout for any Windows laptop running this CPU or
similar and compare their performance and battery life.
