---
title: 'Rant about cloning Windows disk from SATA to NVMe'
publishedAt: '2024-10-05'
---

Today I got around to upgrade my old Ryzen PC. I gave it a new SSD to replace the old one,
because the old one had a smaller capacity. I decided to purchase an NVMe one,
[Lexar NM620](https://www.lexar.com/product/lexar-nm620-m-2-2280-nvme-ssd/). I chose this one
because while there was a Western Digital blue one, it was also a QLC SSD, which you **don't**
want to buy if you want the SSD to last a while.

However, when I tried cloning the drive from the old **SATA** drive to the new **NVMe** drive, 
an error came up when booting into Windows: INACCESSIBLE_BOOT_DRIVE, in Blue Screen of Death.
I didn't know what happened. Later, I cloned the old SATA to a new SATA drive and it booted just the same.
I tried installing a fresh Windows on the NVMe, then cloned the *partition* containing Windows on the 
Sata drive to the NVMe. Same problem.

So I looked up the Internet for this type of error occurring on Clonezilla. Turned out, I wasn't alone
in this regard. According to this [Superuser post](https://superuser.com/questions/1640562/inaccessible-boot-device-after-m-2-ssd-upgrade), because I installed Windows on a **SATA** drive first,
it will boot with the SATA driver in (StorAHCI), *without the NVMe driver* (StorNVMe). I need to change
Windows *in the SATA drive* to boot from NVMe, so they load the NVMe driver in first, using this command:
```
sc.exe config stornvme start= boot
```
This will activate the Windows' built-in NVMe driver during the early boot phase. Once that's done, I cloned
the system to the NVMe SSD. It worked and the system worked normally afterward.

Much difficulty cloning drives like this, I wonder if things are easier when cloning happens on Linux.
But then I remember you have to modify /etc/fstab, GRRUB configurations or else the system won't boot.
So nevermind. Just wonder if I have to load NVMe driver on Linux before booting as well.

:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;^)  
[Reference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HU1QUSrgp4E)