---
title: 'The 4G Router rabbit hole'
publishedAt: '2023-03-31'
---
There is something about the idea of connecting to the World Wide Web
anytime, anywhere, on the go that always entice me. I remember staring
hours to a tiny screen of a Samsung slide phone when I was 7 because it
had 2G connection on it, and wasted 700.000 VND. It was a massive amount
of money in 2003. I had a memory in somewhere between 09 and 10 when I
was in possession of a Nokia E72 and get to use wifi for the first time.
It was like when men first discovered fire. It was magical. Of course,
being that young, I didn't think those will revolutionize the way we use
the Internet like today.

After a brief stint with using 4G on PC, I was hooked. So again I
searched the Internet whether anyone had tried something similar and
what was their experience like. I found out about a whole section of the
Internet dedicated to finding alternative ways to connect to the
Internet. A few of them are No Contract, Rural Internet subreddit on
Reddit.com. There are also XDA Developers if you have ever tried rooting
your Android phone. There is also a discussion on vozfourm or Facebook
about using 4G as substitute for home Internet.

![](/images/blog/230331/4g-home.png)

There are merits to using 4G as home Internet:

\- No need for home renovation due to no wire needed to run.

\- Data prioritization during national Internet bandwidth shortage. At
least in Vietnam, annually we have several times when our undersea optic
cables connecting us to the world are damaged in some ways, leading to
loss of Internet bandwidth. While fiber connection are slow, unstable,
4G connection are better due to the remaining bandwidth being preferred
for 4G over fiber.

However, **using 4G as home Internet should be considered a niche, a
temporary solution because**:

\- Cell towers are not designed to handle large traffic. If lots of
people use 4G as home Internet and downloading large amount of data, it
will eat up bandwidth of everyone else also using that cell tower on
their phones. This is much like how wifi would drop connections when
there are many devices connected, even if the uplink is fast enough to
support all. That's the reason why in large events, major conventions,
mobile cell sites are deployed on-premise to increase bandwidth
available to consumers at the location.

\- High latency makes it hard to use any applications that demand low
response time. Online gaming is out of the question, unless you are a
masochist that enjoy playing at \>80 ms ping at times. VOIP, most say it
also suffers. However, for me it actually improves, due to our network
prioritizing traffic.

\- Inconsistent speed. This largely depends on your location, distance
and obstacles to the nearest tower, tower bandwidth availability. For
example, my phone could reach 170 Mbps with a tower in my viewing
distance, but drop to 40 Mbps when it was a few kms from a nearest
tower.

\- High barrier of entry. Equipments for fiber connection like routers,
modems are quite easy to find, even given for free by the ISPs (at least
the modem), while 4G ones have to be sourced by various places, with
prices often twice of that of fiber ones.

![](/images/blog/230331/xe-phat-song-luu-dong-san-sang-khong-de-nghen-mang-dip-tet-2018-2.jpg)

Nevertheless, that hasn't stopped anyone from turning it to a reality.
So here are several ways to use 4G as an Internet source for your home:

#### 4G/Wifi USB Adapter

![](/images/blog/230331/usb-4g-wifi.jpg)
This is a device that takes a SIM, connects to the Internet via 4G and
broadcast it via 2.4 Ghz wifi. It is powered via USB, plugging to either
a charger or a portable battery. It can also be plugged into a PC,
laptop and used much like the USB Tethering function from Android.

There are 2 categories for the device:

\- Made by brand like ZTE, Huawei

\- No name or lesser known name like Olax (from ZTE), Jazz, NetMax.

The device on the picture is a no name brand. This is usually a Qualcomm
MSM8916 (Snapdragon 410) Android board repurposed to a 4G/Wifi USB
Adapter, so it behaves much like an Android phone with no screen. Some
comes with a more limited MDM9600 chipset \[1\].

Some devices don't come with wifi hotspot function, and must be plugged
to a PC to connect to the Internet.

Be cautious when using this as a hotspot. As it has to pull double duty,
connecting to the Internet via 4G (which can heat up the device
significantly) and broadcasting it via Wifi, it can break down easily.

#### Wifi Hotspot (or Mifi)

![](/images/blog/230331/olax-mt10.jpg)

This is a device that works similarly to the 4G USB Adapter, but it has
its own battery. I'm not sure whether this device supports USB
Tethering.

#### 4G/Wifi USB Adapter and a separate router supporting USB

![](/images/blog/230331/router-usb.jpg)

This is connecting the 4G USB Adapter to a router supporting Internet
connection via USB. The router must have drivers to run the USB, either
unique for the USB or the RNDIS driver, which is used by Android phones
and no name 4G USB. This way has the best chance of success if the
router is running a custom firmware, for example OpenWrt, Padavan, as
they often come with the drivers preinstalled.

#### Phone and a separate router supporting USB

![](/images/blog/230331/phone-router.jpg)

This is connecting an Android phone to a router supporting Internet
connection via USB. It must have the RNDIS driver preinstalled for this
way to work. Custom firmwares like OpenWrt, Padavan are recommended. It
is best to use any phone with Android 9 or later, as it has a function
that defaults its USB connection to tethering mode anytime the phone is
connected via USB to another device.

To do this, make sure your Android phone has the developer options
already turned on. If not, go to **About phone** in **Settings**, find
**Build number** and press 7 times. After that, get to **Developer
Options**. Find **Default USB configuration** in the **Networking**
category. And choose **USB tethering**. Now anytime your phone is
connected to a router via USB, it will be in tethering mode. Even in the
event of a blackout, when power returns, your phone will connect to the
router as a 4G USB Adapter.

![](/images/blog/230331/Screenshot_20230331-143353.png)
![](/images/blog/230331/Screenshot_20230331-143356.png)

#### Dedicated WWAN Box and a separate router supporting USB

![](/images/blog/230331/wwan-box.png)

For those hardcore enthusiasts who want to commit to 4G home Internet,
this is the option for you. This is a M.2 to USB adapter, commonly known
as WWAN Box. It takes in a M.2 WWAN card, usually found in laptop with
4G capability, and convert it to USB mode. It supports 2 external
antennae for better signal reception.

![](/images/blog/230331/wwan-box-inner.jpg)

Some typical M.2 WWAN Card:

\- Sierra Wireless EM7345, EM7430, EM7455

\- Quectel EC20, EC25

\- Fibocom L860

![](/images/blog/230331/em7455.jpg)

Some cards need re-flashing their firmware to receive your SIM properly.
You can follow Jeff Geerling's article \[3\] about that. He also talked
about the different protocols the card use to interact with the router:
QMI, MBIM, ECM\... This is important if you want to setup this card for
use in OS like Ubuntu, Raspbian.

For OpenWrt, there are packages used to interact with the card. You can
check out video \[2\], \[4\] for more information on how to setup
connection using QMI and MBIM mode.

#### Dedicated 4G Router (also called 4G network gateway)

![](/images/blog/230331/CPE-R311-PRO-1.jpg)

Manufacturers created these products as an all-in-one solution for 4G
home Internet. Just slot in the 4G SIM and it will create a wifi access
point for you to connect your devices. These devices are often just your
run-of-the-mill wireless router, slapped in a 4G modem chip. Here are
pictures of Tenda 4G06 disassembly, courtesy of Fccid.io. 4G06 uses
Quectel EC25 as the modem.

![](/images/blog/230331/Picture1.png)
![](/images/blog/230331/Picture2.png)
![](/images/blog/230331/Picture3.png)

Currently only Mobifone offers their 4G home Internet service, MobiWifi,
though they are very quiet about it. Their modem is a Huawei B311 with a
specialized SIM that only grants unlimited data to their device. The
2.4/5 GHz devices are pricier than their 2.4 GHz counterpart. I'll
advise you to buy a gateway and a router separately so that you can have
an easier time troubleshooting.

References:

\- [No Contract subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/NoContract/)

\- [Rural Internet subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Rural_Internet/)

\- [XDA Developers Fourm](https://forum.xda-developers.com/)

\- [vozforum
4G](https://voz.vn/t/cong-dong-4g-5g-cong-nghe-di-dong-thac-mac-khoe-hang-danh-gia-cho-het-vao-day.563346/)

\- [Mobile cell sites](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobile_cell_sites)

\- [Facebook wifi technology
community](https://www.facebook.com/groups/vntik/)

\- [WifiShop](https://wifishop.vn/)

\- [Tenda 4G06](https://www.tendacn.com/product/4g06.html)

\- [MobiWifi](https://mobiwifi.vn/)

\- [Fccid - Tenda 4G06 Internal
Photos](https://fccid.io/V7T4G06/Internal-Photos/Internal-Photos-5421535)

\- [\[1\] Hackable \$20 Modem Combines LTE And Pi Zero W2
Power](https://hackaday.com/2022/08/03/hackable-20-modem-combines-lte-and-pi-zero-w2-power/)

\- [[\[2\] Process of making WWAN Box Router
Combo]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CUM87vjO9Ao)

\- [\[3\] Jeff Geerling - Using 4G LTE wireless modems on a Raspberry
Pi](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2022/using-4g-lte-wireless-modems-on-raspberry-pi)

\- [\[4\] OpenWRT - Install and Configure LTE modem in QMI
mode](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DRddwfZ_TBY)
