---
title: Upgrading Grandparents' Wifi II: The slow and the frustrated
publishedAt: '2023-03-30'
order: 2
---
Have you ever got a feeling that you would never go back once you tried
something that was way better than you expected? That was my feeling
once I replaced my router to an Asus one and get a taste of my fiber's
maximum speed of 150 Mbps, as opposed to 90 Mbps limited by TP-Link'
ancient hardware. Or that time I replaced my DSL connection to fiber
back in 2015. From 3 Mbps to 25 Mbps was a massive jump I couldn't
believe I didn't agree to have it earlier. But I was always a skeptic
towards new technologies.

In early 2023, I was tasked with taking care of my grandparents. So I
got some clothes, my laptop, my phone, my TV box and moved to my
grandparents' house. During this time, I was preparing my documents and
submitting them to various universities for a chance to study Masters in
the USA. And using SCTV's "excellent" Internet service was an exercise
in frustration. Every time I tried to access any web that was from the
US, it would either hang, or chug along. You would need a massive
tolerance for slowness to stand the kind of speed that makes the Chrome
(or Firefox if you're like me) tab spin round and round. I have to use
my VPN server, which is on Viettel Data Center, as a proxy to at least
mitigate it. Being used to fiber, this was unacceptable. I asked my
family to change ISP and their answer was no, which is understandable.
SCTV's cable + Internet combo monthly rate was 220.000 VND, my fiber
alone was worth that much.

Around this time, I came across an interesting offer from a new cell
company.

![](/images/blog/230330-2/so-sánh-mạng-internet-2g-3g-4g-5g.jpg)

I'm no stranger to using cellular network for Internet. I knew of its
existence back in the early days of Vietnamese Internet. It was 2G
network when I was 7 with my dad's Samsung slide phone. Back when it was
ridiculously expensive because there was no data plan, you were billed
by kilobyte so it was more of a novelty then a necessity like today.
I've come to use it frequently since the day I got my first my
smartphone, which was back in 2014, with my country utilizing 3G
network, superseding 2G. 4G came about in 2016 or so. The three major
cell networks: Viettel, Mobifone, Vinaphone, rolled out the carpet to
welcome the new standard. I chose Viettel at the time because as a
college student, money is pretty tight. So 30.000 VND/2,5 GB is a
reasonable data plan as I do not use social media much at the time and
Youtube could be watched at home. In 2019, iTel, a MVNO (mobile virtual
network operator) using Vinaphone as backbone, launched with a plan:
77.000 VND for 3GB per day. I only found out in 2021 through a flyer at
the post office, because MVNOs here aren't known for their massive ad
campaigns. Wanting to give it a test drive, I bought a sim and gave it
to my sister, who used Facebook more than I do. She said it was good and
didn't feel restricted by other networks' limited data caps. For
references, 3GB/day equals to 90GB/month, far exceeded anything that
were offered at the time. The other networks soon followed up with their
own monthly "data cap per day" mode like this. Then I stumbled upon a
data plan of Vinaphone: 500GB for 150.000 VND. That sounded good enough
to me, and I'm not one to pass up an offer that good. So I bought a
Vinaphone sim, replaced my aging Viettel one with it, and tested the
network. It was good, though signal is a bit weak compared to Viettel.
The data plan also comes with 5 Mbps if exceeded. I've been using
Vinaphone on my phone ever since.

Back to grandparents' Internet story. I used my phone as a hotspot and
continue my work. It was faster, around 80-150 Mbps down due to my place
near a cell tower and had a faster response to any website I visited,
especially those US university websites that were hard to get to.

I used a VSmart Live 4 with Android 11, which has an interface that is
closest to being pure Android compared to Samsung. First, you have to
turn on 4G and turn off wifi. Next, go to Settings -\> Cellular -\>
Hotspot & Tethering. And turn on Wifi hotspot or USB Tethering,
depending on your need.

![](/images/blog/230330-2/screen1.png)
![](/images/blog/230330-2/screen2.png)
![](/images/blog/230330-2/screen3.png)

References:

\- [The MAY Plan of
iTel](https://itel.vn/tin-tuc/tin-tuc-itel/sim-itel-goi-may)

\- [U1500 500GB SIM from
Vinaphone](https://cellphones.com.vn/sim-4g-vinaphone-u1500-500gb-thang-12-thang.html)
