---
title: 'Modems, routers and converters'
publishedAt: '2023-04-04'
---
There seems to be confusions surrounding common devices the Internet
service provider (ISP) gives. A lot of terms get thrown around: modem,
wireless router, 5 GHz, 1200 Mbps\... I want to offer my assistance to
help alleviate this problem.

#### Modem

If you were born before the explosion of the Internet, you would
encounter this device before, or at least know what it did to your
telephone line when you were on the Internet.

![](/images/blog/230404/usr815668d-56k-message-modem.jpg)

A modem is a modulator/demodulator unit, responsible for converting data
from digital signal into analog one. Digital data usually goes inside
the device, where as analog ones happen outside, on transmission like
phone line, fiber, coaxial cable. The unit seen on the picture is a
dial-up modem, used to connect a computer to the Internet via telephone
line, the same line you use to call another telephone. The dial-up modem
dials to a specific phone number (ex: 1269 back in my day), performs
handshake with the ISP's modem, and finally start transmitting data
between themselves. During this time, you can't use the telephone,
because the modem has already taken it.

[https://www.youtube.com/embed/bgTxFLHcuKc?si=V1IbEYuKT28f9yqF](https://www.youtube.com/embed/bgTxFLHcuKc?si=V1IbEYuKT28f9yqF)

Later, people were able to utilize frequency bands above the band used
for telephone. That gave birth to ADSL, or Asymmetrical Digital
Subscriber Line. With a DSL filter, often called splitter, the frequency
bands are isolated, permitting a single telephone line to be used for
both ADSL service and telephone calls at the same time as 2 lines.

![](/images/blog/230404/adsl-splitter.jpg)

![](/images/blog/230404/DSL-520B-yback.png)

Pictured above is the back of a typical ADSL modem, D-link 520b. Its
main feature is the 2 ports: DSL and LAN. As around this time, USB and
Ethernet became the standard. You plug the DSL port with the cable from
a splitter at the computer port's end, LAN to the computer. This modem
acts as both a modem, transferring data to and from ISP by the cable,
and a router, connecting the Internet to you and handing out an IP
address for your computer.

![](/images/blog/230404/internet-adsl-viettel.png)

Back then, it costed a fair bit of cash to have ADSL at home, so only a
handful of families got their hands on this. Still, this beat 56 kbps of
dial-up any day. The price above was from quite later as ADSL adoption
had slowed down and fiber started showing up. For my family, we paid by
MB we used, so I used to have a software that counted the MB and billed
it based on the hour of day. I often torrented at midnight because it
was cheaper then.

But then came fiber optic, or FTTH (fiber to the home). It was promised
to be the next big thing in Vietnamese Internet. For the first time, we
were able to get symmetrical speed, like 25 down 25 up, instead of 3
down 0.5 up (Mbps) like ADSL. It is increasingly important, as more
activities you can do on the Net with a larger upload speed. The ping of
fiber being lower also helps online gaming, VOIP services such as Zalo,
Messenger, Viber, Telegram won the favors of people over free voice and
video calls.

According to Quora \[1\], there seems to be answers at odds with each
other over whether Optical Network Terminal (ONT) should be called a
modem. In my humble opinion, it should be called a modem, since even
light can be considered analog. Fiber uses light as a mean to transmit
data to and from ISP.

#### Router

When I installed fiber Internet back in 2015, this is what they gave me.

![](/images/blog/230404/h646ew.jpg)
![](/images/blog/230404/h646ew_under.jpeg)

This is Dasan H646EW, a GPON ONT with 2.4 GHz Wifi. There's a lot of
conflicting information about which of the 4 ports has Gigabit Ethernet,
and which doesn't. As far as I know, port 1 has Gigabit Ethernet. The
device is once again, a combo device that is a modem + a switch (due to
4 ports present) + a router + a wireless access point.

You may be wondering why there is a separate section for routers. That
is because devices like H646EW are all collectively called routers. But
they are more like a combination of various hardware then just routers.
By definition, a router is a networking device that forwards data
packets (routes, if you will) from a computer host or network to another
computer host or network. Nowadays, they often sell wireless router
combos because they are an all-in-one, setup-and-forget solution for an
average consumer.

Due to being a jack-of-all-trade, they only do a good enough job as a
router, an access point. Anything that needs better performance, like
farther Wifi range, faster routing speed, a technical user should
consider separating each function to individual hardware. For instance,
ISP router + your own router. For better range in Wifi, ISP router +
specialized router + access points. ISP router are kept around due to
requirements from the ISP. I didn't use the ISP router and opted to use
my own. First, it's the Tenda AC10, then the TP-Link Archer C50, both
2.4/5 GHz 1200 Mbps Wifi routers. Tenda AC10 was defective so that's why
I replaced it.

![](/images/blog/230404/tenda-ac10.png)
![](/images/blog/230404/Archer-C50_UN_4.0-01_normal_1515392726561m.jpg)

The 2.4/5 GHz represents the bands that the Wifi router can broadcast,
in this case 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz. 1200 Mbps **is the aggregated speed of
both bands**:

\- 300 Mbps is from 2.4 GHz. Each antenna sends and receives signal with
a 40 MHz channel at 150 Mbps, so 2 antennae is 300 Mbps

\- Similarly, 900 Mbps is from 5 GHz. Each antenna sends and receives
signal with a 80 MHz channel at 433 Mbps, so 2 antennae is 867 Mbps,
which rounds up to 900 Mbps for marketing purposes.

\- Do note that this speed is theoretical. By using my phone, which has
1 antenna for Wifi, to test iperf3, at 2.4 GHz 40 MHz channel is around
100 Mbps, at 5 GHz 80 MHz channel is around 240 Mbps. Your mileage may
vary.

Back in 2015, my fiber speed was 25 Mbps, so with 100 Mbps WAN port it
was enough. But in 2021, with fiber reaching 150 Mbps and my server
needing faster wireless performance to serve movies around the house, it
was upgraded to the Asus RT-AC1300UHP. It has a quad core ARM CPU, which
trumps over MIPS CPU of the previous router in performance, as well as
better broadcasting range. Around this time, I joined a Facebook
community and they hinted at a possibility for a better performance if I
were to turn off routing on the modem by using what is called "Bridge
Mode". So now routing is done by the Asus router as it is connected
directly to the ISP, while the modem is simply passing the signal along.

![](/images/blog/230404/RT-AC1300UHP.png)

#### Converter

To put it simply, media converters terminate the fiber, turn fiber optic
signal to that of Ethernet for a single port connecting to a router. It
should not be confused with ONT because the converter has no regard for
things like IP, VLAN, MAC \[2\].

![](/images/blog/230404/media-converter.jpeg)

#### Cable modem

Why does this belong here? Because in Vietnam, hardly anyone wants to
use cable Internet. It feels like an afterthought of any cable service
provider. Unlike in the USA where it's one of the main ways to get
Internet with speed up to 1 Gbps, the fastest in Vietnam is with SCTV at
200 Mbps, while with Viettel you get 300 Mbps symmetrical plus TV for a
cheaper price. And the quality of Internet is cable is worse than fiber.

Cable Internet uses a standard known as DOCSIS (Data-over-Cable Service
Interface Specifications). It was developed by CableLabs. DOCSIS works
by utilizing TV channels on a coaxial cable to transfer data. Pre-DOCSIS
3.0, it was only using 1 channel for download, 1 for upload. DOCSIS 3.0
onwards can bond channels to increase bandwidth available to consumers.

![](/images/blog/230404/IMG_20230330_085715_959.jpg)
![](/images/blog/230404/docsis-bond.png)

The modem is a mplus CBC383, a Cable to Ethernet modem from Korea. It
supports 8 channels bonding downstream, 4 channels bonding upstream and
Gigabit Ethernet. Looking at its configuration page at
[http://192.168.100.1/](http://192.168.100.1/), it was clear that the modem bonded 8 channels
for downloading, 2 channels for uploading. It can run very fast, but
currently my grandparents' house is on a 50 Mbps plan from SCTV.

Some small notes:

\- I think the reasons for the poor performance of cable Internet are
company negligence and deprioritization during national Internet
bandwidth shortage.

\- Wifi, Bluetooth, your cell phone also use modems to send and receive
data.

References:

\- [Modem vs Router - What\'s the
difference?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mad4kQ5835Y)

\- [Fiber vs Cable (Coaxial) or ONT vs
Modem](https://dongknows.com/fiber-vs-cable-internet-docsis-modem-vs-ont/)

\- [Wikipedia - Modem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modem)

\- [TP-Link Archer C50
v4](https://www.tp-link.com/vn/home-networking/wifi-router/archer-c50/v4/)

\- [Asus
RT-AC1300UHP](https://www.asus.com/networking-iot-servers/wifi-routers/asus-wifi-routers/rt-ac1300uhp/)

\- [Facebook wifi technology
community](https://www.facebook.com/groups/vntik/)

\- [Docsis 3-0 CBC383 CABLE MODEM
Specs](https://www.tradekorea.com/product/detail/P621075/Docsis-3-0-CBC383-CABLE-MODEM.html)

\- [What is DOCSIS?](https://networkshardware.com/what-is-docsis/)

\- [SCTV Price](https://www.sctv.com.vn/bang-gia-dich-vu)

\- [Viettel Fiber](https://www.viettelcapquang.vn/)

\- [\[1\] Quora - Is ONT a
modem?](https://www.quora.com/Is-the-ONT-a-modem)

\- [\[2\] Quora - Can I use a media converter + SFP to bypass using a
modem?](https://www.quora.com/Can-I-use-a-media-converter-SFP-to-bypass-using-a-modem-I-have-500mbps-fiber-optics-FTTH-What-SFP-will-work-best)
