---
title: 'Compile OpenWrt for Orange Pi R1 Plus LTS'
publishedAt: '2023-05-23'
---
I recently got my hand on a new router to play with. It's an [Orange Pi
R1 Plus
LTS](http://www.orangepi.org/html/hardWare/computerAndMicrocontrollers/details/orange-pi-R1-Plus-LTS.html),
an Rockchip RK3328 board with dual-gigabit Ethernet ports. The reason
for the *LTS* or *Long Term Support* is because of chip shortage, they
lacked the Realtek RTL8211 chip for the WAN port, so they substituted it
with Motorcomm YT8531C because it was more abundant. I plan to use this
board as either a DNS Server to speed up domain querying in place of my
Raspberry Pi, or as a router. There is a similar board which this one
takes inspiration from (including device tree source, more on that
later), [NanoPi
R2S](https://www.friendlyelec.com/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=282).
However, that board was pricier and I felt a bit adventurous that day.
So first off, I tried out Openwrt on this board, since it was
recommended by the board manufacturer.

![](/images/blog/230523/my_r1.jpg)

#### Different flavors of OpenWrt

When I bought this board used, they gave me a metal case, a 32GB SD card
with their own version of OpenWrt 21.02 installed. It was packed to the
brim with stuff, Docker, adblock, bandwidth monitor, wake on LAN,
torrent downloader, DLNA, Dynamic DNS. It wasn't for my liking since it
slowed the OS down so I tried something else.

Following [this
page](https://orangepi.vn/huong-dan-tai-cac-ban-openwrt-cho-orange-pi-r1-plus-lts.html),
I tried out the manufacturer's OpenWrt. Much like the previous one, it
was based on 21.02 but fairly minimal. A Youtube named Van Tech Corner
[created his own OpenWrt
release](https://github.com/vantechcorner/openwrt-orangepi) from the
[source code provided by the
manufacturer](https://github.com/orangepi-xunlong/openwrt). You can
check out the [unboxing and
testing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vtdBMK8Cyx0&pp=ygUMb3JhbmdlIHBpIHIx)
video,
[similar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c7dTmngyaVM&pp=ygUKbmFub3BpIHIycw%3D%3D)
video for NanoPi R2S. The two releases differ in the number of packages
preinstalled. I tested the Van Tech's one. It was better because of its
slim size. But when I tried to install any package that has a kernel
dependency, like Wireguard, 4G USB support (RNDIS), it said *The
installed version of package kernel is not compatible.* According to the
OpenWrt [page](https://openwrt.org/faq/cannot_satisfy_dependencies),
these were self-compiled image, and couldn't use kernel-related packages
from the official repository, but had to be either included in or built
beforehand and installed externally. I tried out OpenWrt official
download [page](https://downloads.openwrt.org/), but no luck for this
board. NanoPi R2S did have an image, though. So I'm out of luck until
official support from OpenWrt or Orange Pi, right?

#### A daring approach: Compile from source

Before this, I compiled Asterisk for my VOIP server experiment. It was
the recommended way of installing it, as the one on the Ubuntu repo
(repository) is old. I just followed the instructions and it compiled
and installed. Another instance is driver install. Some drivers like my
RTL8156 2.5Gbps Ethernet USB for my server had to be compiled from
source because again, Debian's one was too old to support it. So I
checked out source code from [Van
Tech](https://github.com/vantechcorner/openwrt-orangepi),
which is a derivative (or fork) of the source code from Orange Pi's
OpenWrt. At first, I just randomly followed instruction, feeds update,
feeds install. Inside menuconfig, Global build settings, I picked
*Select all target specific packages by default*, *Select all kernel
module packages by default*. So it took *a few hours* to either compiled
and didn't run on the R1 Plus board, or it caught an error halfway.
After a few more tries, I eventually got it compiling correctly, though
I chose to *make -j1* because I needed to trace the error if it popped
up.

![](/images/blog/230523/menuconfig.jpg)

After testing the compiled image on the board to verify it running
correctly, I searched Google and found [this forum post from OpenWrt and
image and source code from
walmartshopper](https://forum.openwrt.org/t/orange-pi-r1-plus-support/84824/246).
It was newer, version 22.03, and it worked using their provided image.

I got curious about the changes in the source code that Orange Pi made,
so I used Visual Studio Code to look into the source. I searched for
anything related to Orange Pi R1 Plus (LTS included) and came across
multiple results. I will tell you some notable ones:

![](/images/blog/230523/kernel_patch.jpg)

\- The .patch files inside *target/linux/rockchip/patches-5.4* and
*package/boot/uboot-rockchip/patches*. According to
[kernel.org](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v4.18/process/applying-patches.html),
these are kernel patches. This is how Orange Pi add support for their R1
Plus (and LTS) board to OpenWrt, even though you can't find this board
on OpenWrt's download page. They patched dts files in the kernel, in
addition to the YT8531C driver for the ethernet.

\- *target/linux/rockchip/image/armv8.mk* shows how OpenWrt build the
image for the board, as well as *package/boot/uboot-rockchip/Makefile*
for the bootloader.

Note that this is an ARM processor, so the boot process is different
than your computer. It requires a dtb, or a device tree blob that is
compiled from dts - device tree source file, and its own bootloader.
They usually use U-Boot. To this day, Orange Pi R1 Plus (and LTS) dts
files haven't been upstreamed, or merged back to the OpenWrt source. The
Linux kernel source has upstreamed dts for R1 Plus on v6.3 and LTS on
v6.4. Maybe in the future, as there has been several attempts at doing
so at OpenWrt pull requests.

Looking at other git repos like from
[walmartshopper](https://github.com/walmartshopper/openwrt-orangepi-r1-plus/commits/openwrt-22.03?author=walmartshopper),
[baiyut](https://github.com/baiywt/openwrt/commits/openwrt-22.03?author=baiywt)
(who is in charge of the patches in Orange Pi OpenWrt, his own repo also
has OpenWrt 22.03),
[ImmortalWrt](https://github.com/immortalwrt/immortalwrt) (which allows
non-upstreamable patches), they also applied this technique to support
the R1 Plus (and LTS). From [walmartshopper's
repo](https://github.com/walmartshopper/openwrt-orangepi-r1-plus/commits/openwrt-22.03?author=walmartshopper),
I tried merging OpenWrt 22.03 current branch to his, but the number of
conflicts is too big, I wondered if the amount of work put into keeping
R1 Plus up-to-date with OpenWrt was this huge. It's quite amazing.

In the future, with the release of OpenWrt 23.05, if those customized
repos don't support the board, and OpenWrt doesn't support either, I
will see if it's possible to port the files for R1 Plus (and LTS) over.

#### Note on using Android TV Box as router

Before all this, I tried testing a X96 Air S905X3 4GB and Mecool M8S Pro
W S905W 2GB with this OpenWrt implementation by
[ophub](https://github.com/ophub/amlogic-s9xxx-openwrt). He used Armbian
bootloader to boot to OpenWrt environment. One of the flaws I discovered
after testing [Coreelec](https://coreelec.org/) on the Mecool is that [I
can\'t boot back to Armbian or OpenWrt
anymore](https://forum.armbian.com/topic/18871-boot-from-usb-having-armbian-on-emmc/),
due to Coreelec overwriting the eMMC bootloader and I don't want to
re-flash Android on the TV Box. In fact, this was exactly why I
purchased this Orange Pi R1 Plus LTS board. So I don't have to go
through this hassle with TV Box. And in the event of Raspberry Pi
shortage such as right now, I want to switch to alternative single board
computers such as Orange Pi from now on. While support is spotty, they
outperform the Raspberry Pi and don't *cost an arm and a leg* to buy.

References:

\- [OpenWrt source
code](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-developer/source-code/start)

\- [OpenWrt Build system
usage](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-developer/toolchain/use-buildsystem)
