---
title: 'YouTube: The beginning of the end'
publishedAt: '2023-05-23'
---
by The Testing Guy

Last night on Wednesday, May 10, I came across a post on
[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/youtube/comments/13cfdbi/apparently_ad_blockers_are_not_allowed_on_youtube/)
saying that Youtube is beginning to block videos if you are using
ad-block, such as me on Firefox using uBlock Origin. I thought that was
some kind of April Fool joke so I ignored it. Today, I received a
community post by Youtuber [Cynical
Reviews](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1DCPS2j-o0bvfIilkc8RSw/community?lb=UgkxRDC4JuhK_O3jyMqIIyGe8a0u850H6qTR)
saying the same thing yesterday. So I thought: "We're in the endgame
now".

![](ic/images/blog/230511/ban_adblock.png)

#### My history of the Internet

I've been with the Internet since the very beginning of it. I used
dial-up back in the 2000s and switched to DSL later on. My family used
to chat on Yahoo Messenger, play flash games (RIP Adobe Flash, you will
be missed for your large catalog of content you provided for us), play
Boom Online, and watch videos on Youtube. Those days, Internet was
expensive, counted by MBs you consumed, so you had to watch the amount.
I only downloaded heavy files at night to cut cost. But it was less
restrictive, less corporate, curated like today. It was the "wild west"
where anything could happen. You could find fun things while searching
the old web. Back at that time, it was Yahoo Search, nobody heard of
Google yet. Youtube was its own company then, just launched. I started
watching it at a later time. I used to watch Inuyasha, the entire
collection on Youtube, because copyright wasn't enforced then. I started
watching [nigahiga](https://www.youtube.com/@ryanhiga) in 2021. If you
follow his channel, you can basically see the history of Youtube and the
world of the second decade of the 21^st^ century unfolds.

#### What's wrong with today's Youtube?

It's generally what's wrong when anything becomes too big, too popular.
It's becoming sanitized, safe, family-friendly (whatever that means),
corporate. And Youtube is no exception. I see its changes from a service
centered around its creator to slowly moving away, instead pleasing the
advertizers, the investors, the big names in the MSM (mainstream media).
So Google created various changes to their platform, including but not
limited to: demonetize any video with curse words in it (even videos not
meant for kids); false copyright claims run rampant (even on channels
whose videos are owned by the creator get copyrighted); losing revenue
by Youtube taking your copyrighted video and giving it to the "original"
owner; ad runtime increase; before video then after video then middle,
from 3, 5 seconds, to 15 seconds, skippable to nowadays unskippable,
some ads even 15 minutes, a lot of them are scam;
[Adpocalypse](https://youtube.fandom.com/wiki/YouTube_Adpocalypse);
and now, about to force me to turn off ad-blocker.

#### Commentary

Like hell I'm turning off ad-blocker. This has been going on at other
sites as well. They detect that you're using ad-blocker, block the site
and "ask" you to take it down. Sure, take it down so they can shove ads
covering your screen, loud videos in your face. While I can ignore any
other sites doing this, I can't ignore Youtube. It has become a large
part of everyone's lives and livelihoods. I can just buy Premium and
forget about all this, but that's on top of more bills to pay (Netflix,
Internet, VieOn), and you pay for something that is and will always be
free. Maybe you can buy it to support your creators, but that's the
case, why do they have to take sponsorships and Patreons, open their own
merchandise store then? Sponsorships are ads that are on top of
Youtube's dumb ads, this time INSIDE the videos. As seen in adguard's
[article](https://adguard.com/en/blog/firefox-manifestv3-chrome-adblocking.html)
and EFF's
[article](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2021/12/chrome-users-beware-manifest-v3-deceitful-and-threatening),
this isn't the first time Google tried to shut down ad-block. And to me,
it's kind of depressing thinking about what's to come, as the Internet
becomes more restrictive as time goes on. Soon due to geopolitics, there
will be a localNet^(tm)^ instead of Internet, where each country has
their own version of the Internet. And because your typical user doesn't
care, they will stay on Chrome and Youtube, which Google has the power
over and can tell us what to see and not see, not just ads, but contents
that fit their "vision". Firefox may give us some freedom from Chrome
now, but for how long? I saw even Mozilla has lost its
[focus](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/products/vpn/)
[over](https://mozilla.social/explore) the years. I thought DuckDuckGo
focuses on privacy, but then [they sell your data to
Microsoft](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/duckduckgo-browser-allows-microsoft-trackers-due-to-search-agreement/).
My favored Linux distribution, Ubuntu, becomes more corporate, forcing
weird decisions like [this](https://evertpot.com/firefox-ubuntu-snap/)
and
[this](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/comments/j3ajnf/whats_wrong_with_snaps_why_so_many_people_hate_it/).
Reading
[on](https://www.reddit.com/r/Cyberpunk/comments/wxra6o/we_already_live_in_a_cyberpunk/)
[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Cyberpunk/comments/b5srqp/do_we_live_in_cyberpunk_already/),
and recently finished watching [Cyberpunk
Edgerunner](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JtqIas3bYhg), I think we are
already living in a cyberpunk dystopia. Various service we use for our
conveniences like Facebook, Google might as well came out of George
Orwell's *1984*, or I can do one better, Aldous Huxley's [*Brave New
World*](https://www.reddit.com/r/books/comments/yq7yt/so_i_read_brave_new_world_how_is_it_a_dystopia/).
Maybe\... This is the endgame for all of us.
