---
title: 'Install Firefox as deb instead of snap on Ubuntu'
publishedAt: '2023-06-09'
---
I know that Snap earned a bad reputation among Linux folks due on it
being closed-source by Canonical, which developed the open-source Ubuntu
Linux. I haven't used Linux for long, but I have to agree with the
general consensus. Snap on my system, while generally doesn't degrade
performance much, basically acts like Windows 10, auto update anytime it
wants, regardless of my opinion. Its daemon, snapd, **does** degrade
performance when updating apps. When using my Ubuntu virtual server, I
uninstalled snapd, because all of my apps can be obtained from apt or
docker. On the other hand, I was hesitant to remove snapd, along with
Firefox, because I was afraid it would mess up something to my daily
driver, Lubuntu. But it had to be done

#### Howto (by [source](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1399383/how-to-install-firefox-as-a-traditional-deb-package-without-snap-in-ubuntu-22))

You might want to backup the OS first before committing to this. So I
used
[Clonezilla](https://clonezilla.org/downloads/download.php?branch=stable)
to back up the OS. You can use whatever.

Back at Lubuntu, I backed up my Firefox profile by going to
*about:profiles*, look at the default profile, click *Open Directory* on
*Root Directory*. Copy its content to another folder outside.

Next, I added Mozilla's repo using terminal:

*sudo add-apt-repository ppa:mozillateam/ppa*

I uninstalled Firefox from Snap using:

*snap remove firefox*

I then created 2 new files at 2 locations, 1 is for prioritizing the apt
Firefox over snap Firefox, 1 is for preventing snap Firefox from coming
back, respectively:

\- /etc/apt/preferences.d/mozilla-firefox

*Package: \**

*Pin: release o=LP-PPA-mozillateam*

*Pin-Priority: 1001*

*Package: firefox*

*Pin: version 1:1snap1-0ubuntu2*

*Pin-Priority: -1*

\- /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/51unattended-upgrades-firefox

*Unattended-Upgrade::Allowed-Origins::
\"LP-PPA-mozillateam:\$\{distro\_codename\}\";*

After that, I uninstalled snapd, which Lubuntu prompted me to reinstall
Firefox as apt instead. Just accept it.

*sudo apt autoremove snapd \--purge*

Repeat the step to back up Firefox profile, this time is for recreating
the profile. I created a new profile, opened its directory, pasted the
backup profile there. And that's it.
