---
title: '"Perhaps I treated you too harshly". Reflection on .NET as a back end framework'
publishedAt: '2024-09-02T03:00:00Z'
---
After not working for a while as a full stack developer, I got a new
job. Now I\'m about to be a web developer, again. This time, I will,
along with a team, manage a website running a content management system
(CMS), Drupal. Since I have never dealt with CMS, or PHP, before, this
is a new venture for me. In preparation for this new job, I have watched
tutorials, reinstalled Docker and many containers, done some works.
Let\'s say I\'m excited to come back to programming. I guess having a
job does push you to be more motivated.

During my preparation, my brain just wondered somewhere. I typed in
Google \".net vs javascript\" and stumbled upon a post in
[Reddit](https://www.blogger.com/). I discovered there is such a thing
as NET Minimal API, similar to the one I deployed on my server as a
music, file server over HTTP on ExpressJS a while ago. This got me
thinking a bit so I searched \"NET Minimal API\" on Google and there was
a tutorial for minimal API with .NET by
[Microsoft](https://www.blogger.com/). I was surprised.

When I was still working as a Full Stack Developer for my old place, I
**hated** their .NET Core codebase. Because at the time, I didn\'t
understand what MVC was for, and many more intricacies in the underlying
structure of their codebase. I often argued with their senior developer
about the necessity of such baggage like interface, dependency
injection. To this day, I still can\'t see the reason. Maybe because
I\'m ignorant to them, or I don\'t have the view of the bigger picture,
as most my web applications are quite small, a simple ExpressJS with a
couple of APIs should do it. That\'s why I was ecstatic when we move on
to other backend frameworks. My favorite at the time was NestJS. It was
built upon ExpressJS, so right up my alley. And since a new codebase
meant moving on from legacy baggages, no more problems from .NET Core
haunting me. Another thing I hated was I couldn\'t program the .NET
server on Linux, I could only use Windows with Visual Studio, a behemoth
IDE that ate up all of 12GB ram whenever I wanted to debug the program.
I could never find ways to debug on VS Code, better yet, create a new
.NET Web API project. Now with the discovery of .NET\'s command line,
maybe those could be done on Linux.

But that got me to reflect on myself. What if I had figured this out
sooner, would I still hate .NET as much as I did before. Maybe I would
have enjoyed the framework, because the language C\# syntax is much
better than Java. I had difficulty working with LINQ before slowly it
becoming my favorite thing when dealing with array of objects. It has
two ways of doing things: query-like SQL or method (callback). I used
the method way back then. My greatest achievement on LINQ was using that
and my then-newfound knowledge of garbage collection to create about 10
million records for a table on MySQL daily. That job used to belong to a
MySQL stored procedure, which runs for hours. My new way took 5 minutes
to run. I always wondered whether the result was correct every time it
ran but no one seemed to complain.
